A wide range of cloud providers
offer basic services for managing
data and supporting applications.
All of these involve customers leasing
portions of servers hosted in datacenters.
Compute services provide processing
instances of varying performance
that can be provisioned with memory.
Software can be run on these
compute services that allow them
to act as servers for application,
user interfaces, server side rendering,
databases, controllers,
an application programming interfaces.
Web servers are a specific type
of compute instance that allows
content to be accessed by URLs.
These instances are often packaged as
web storage instances and are available
from a wide variety of cloud vendors.
Further, cloud services that are
also widely available are those
used for content delivery.
This includes domain name,
registry and certificate management.
Applications can be deployed to
the cloud so that compute resources
automatically scale according to demand
for reliable and cost efficient solution.
Container orchestration services
deploy containerized application
images such as Docker images to compute
instances and use a load balancer
to distribute traffic between them.
When traffic is low,
a container orchestration service may
only operate one compute instance.
However, at high demand,
multiple compute instances with
identical configuration will
be automatically deployed.
There are a wide range of providers
that offer container orchestration
services and packaging applications
for deployment in this way is a
good option for maintaining a
wide choice of cloud vendors.
One of the most important strategic
partnerships that emerged from any
Internet of Things business is a
relationship with the database provider.
The variety of databases offered
have different qualities that lend
themselves towards different use cases.
Relational databases are often
thought of as a standard solution.
Normalization of databases are more
flexible types for unstructured data.
Graph databases involved use of graph
data and are particularly to system
control and deep learning applications.
Search and search engines make analytics
and visualizations of data more easy,
but tend to be expensive.
What is shown in this diagram are
a few example databases available
of the different types.
There are many more prices,
terms and conditions of
use vary between them.
Cloud providers offer a wide range of
often very useful applications apart
from what has been described here.
Using these services can often make the
initial development process easier,
speeding up time to market
and reducing upfront costs.
However, these services often come at
a premium operating cost compared with
the more basic commoditize solutions
and result in a technology being
locked into a particular partnership
for the duration of its economic life.